---
layout: post
title: "New Blog!"
category: 
tags: [Hacking]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Well, a new life for the old one, anyway.  Ahem.  So, it has been a
while I believe?  Sorry about that!

In the last, err, over a year since last posting I have, at least:
* Been back to Nepal (trekking around the Annapurna Circuit this time)
* Also spent 6 weeks in South America.

Unfortunately the weather wasn't great for photos in Nepal this time,
so there's probably only one post there.  I don't have many great
pictures from South America either, but I can probably manage to eke
out a few more posts!

In the mean time though, I migrated this blog.  It spent the first
couple of years of its life on posterous, which was a great platform
at the time but more recently seemed a bit neglected while the team
cast around for ways to keep it alive before accepting a
pity-acquisition from Twitter.  I decided to move it to a new platform
--- the rest of this gets a bit nerdy, sorry!

## Jekyll-bootstrap, github-pages, and the migration process

I decided to move to a static-site option, giving me a bit more
flexibility as well as control over my data: in other words, all of
the site is generated once per post, then served as simple files
rather than from a database.  I also wanted to be able to keep it in
git, although that's almost a given with most site-generator options.

There's plenty of options for site generation, but one of the most
popular alternatives is [jekyll](https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll).
By itself this only offers a flexible but bare site generation
framework; [jekyll-bootstrap](http://jekyllbootstrap.com/) adds a
framework tailored for blogging on top, along with themes based on the
now-ubiquitous
[Twitter-bootstrap](http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap/).  I also
looked pretty hard at [Octopress](http://octopress.org/), again based
on jekyll, but made a slightly-arbitrary decision to go with
jekyll-bootstrap ([Hyde](http://ringce.com/hyde) deserves mention too,
including because it's built on technologies I'm more familiar with).
I think this decision was at least in part due to the greater
integration with github --- see below --- although in reality this is
almost a non-issue.

For those of you who don't know, github offers a [static site hosting
service](http://pages.github.com/), including custom domain names if
you wish.  All that's needed is a specially-named repository, and they
will serve it as a website for you.  As a bonus, they also have jekyll
integration and can generate your site for you (of course, otherwise
you just generate it yourself before pushing to git-hub, which is what
I ended up doing.  If at any time github becomes less suitable I can
easily host the files myself, or use Amazon S3, or any other
alternative.

Firstly though, I wanted to take all my previous content with me.
This wasn't too challenging, but did involve a couple of fiddly steps
--- read on for the details!

### Migration steps

1. Download previous posts from Posterous!  Posterous does have an
API, and Jekyll includes a posterous importer.  The problem with this
is I wanted my images as well, and the existing importer didn't handle
that.  I [hacked it a
bit](https://github.com/markhepburn/jekyll/commit/5890740c4bb6e8d9da498a88a342daaf8356ce01)
to download the images as well, into a separate directory for each
post and as a stop-gap measure just source them in a HTML list.  (I
submitted a pull request for the importer patch, but haven't heard back.
It's pretty hackish, but you're welcome to it.)

1. This got ugly pretty quickly, so I [wrote another
hack](https://gist.github.com/2978398) to upload each image directory
to picasa.

1. Unfortunately, Picasa's "embedding" functionality seems to be
limited to effectively a link to the album on their site, or a shitty
flash slideshow.  So, I took the [smallest lightbox
implementation](http://www.digitalia.be/software/slimbox2) I could
find, and wrapped it with [this
plugin](http://code.lancepollard.com/picasa-jquery-plugin) for pulling
the image links from picasa's RSS feed (it saved me writing my own at
this point!), and tied them together with a bit of jquery.  Instant
lightbox, hosted by picasa.

1. Well, not quite.  I wrote a [simple little jekyll
plugin](https://github.com/markhepburn/markhepburn.github.com/blob/master/_plugins/picasa.rb)
to wrap some boilerplate HTML around the picasa album-ID, and used an
emacs macro to help replace the old image links with that tag.  Then I
pushed to github, and immediately realised that of course for security
reasons they don't run extra plugins... so I used sed to swap the tags
for the boilerplate, and moved on (fortunately it wasn't a complicated
plugin).

1. Fixing up backlinks.  In some posts I have referred to earlier
posts, and posterous uses a different link format to jekyll
(/title-slug vs /yyyy/mm/dd/often-a-different-slug).  I was testing
out regular expressions ready to write a script to find all links,
trawl the \_posts directory looking for which it was likely to refer to
and update it... when I realised that there were only 7 such
backlinks.  So I just fixed them up by hand! (Geek-cred lost, but time
gained).

1. Almost there... I switched to one of the themes provided with
jekyll-bootstrap, originally due to [Mark
Reid](http://mark.reid.name/).  I'd like to do my own at some point,
but in the mean time it's nice and clean.  I like it.

And now we're done! In theory this means I can go back to posting more
frequently; in practice it at least means I have less excuses.  I'd
like to post more technical content as well, but I make no promises.
If you're interested in what I'm reading, I tend to share technical
links on [Google+](http://etbwc.com/+) at the moment.
