---
layout: post
title: "North America 2013: Toronto"
category: 
tags: [Travel, North America]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Travel began for real when I left the familar environs of Vancouver
for bustling cosmpolitan Toronto.  I had been toying with the idea of
catching a
[train](http://www.viarail.ca/en/explore-our-destinations/trains/rockies-and-pacific/toronto-vancouver-canadian),
inspired by visions of getting some hacking and reading done when I
wasn't admiring the stunning scenery.  A little further investigation
revealed that it was rather pricy and just as slow, that most of the
stunning scenery whisked by while you slept on the first night, and
besides... every photo suggested I was not even remotely in their
target age bracket.  By this stage I had been making plans to visit
said stunning scenery in person anyway, so in the end I just flew.

# Day 1: Bearings

My favourite way to explore a city is on foot, and there was perfect
weather for it.  My hostel, which was student accommodation most of
the year, was quite close the Ryerson university campus and Dundas
square.  Lots of buskers around; it turned out there was a festival
on.  After a bit of an explore around this area I took off up
[Yonge Street](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yonge_Street), the
(formerly) longest street in the world depending on your accounting
method.  One unexpected highlight before I left Yonge was a book store
dedicated to [cook books](http://www.cook-book.com/)!

Turning left I wound back via the fashion district (I think?), the
rather striking museum facade, the college area (looking very
Ivy-league, and apparently portrays Harvard in movies more frequently
than Harvard itself does), Kensington markets, and the financial
district.

I closed the day up on the roof of the hostel when I realised it was
accessible!

<div data-album="5915133148646696561" class="gallery"><a href="https://plus.google.com/photos/110262280296887306226/albums/5915133148646696561">View Photos on Google+</a></div>

# Day 2: Niagara Falls

I had booked a tour to Niagara falls through the hostel, and went down
at the annointed time to wait... and wait and wait, introducing myself
at some point to the gentleman also clearly waiting.  After some time
the hostel rang on our behalf, to discover they had left without us!
This was one of the best pieces of luck to hit yet: they refunded our
money, booked us onto a tour leaving at lunch time for free, and in
the mean time gave us a free bus tour of the city, which added context
to parts I'd wandered the day before and introduced me to others I
hadn't.

The tour itself I think is fairly standard; we stop for an ice-wine
tasting along the way, pass through the creepily Stepford-wives-like
town of
[Niagara on the Lake](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Niagara-on-the-Lake)
(so fastidious about preserving its appearance that tourist buses have
to park on the outskirts and no franchise is allowed in the
centre[^1]), and finally the falls themselves.

The volume of water is definitely breathtaking (as is the Disney-like
shops and attractions surrounding it); the mist rises up at least as
high again as the falls themselves, and if you take the boat out will
drench you even further out than you'd expect.

There was an interesting side-note to the boat ride: the operators
have a long-term lease that is now an incredible bargain.  Recently
there was a stand-off when the park authorities tried to raise their
rent, the boat operators refused and threatened to dismantle the dock
they had built themselves if evicted, and in the end were allowed to
continue as-is.  The lease expires very soon however, and not
surprisingly they were not awarded the next contract.

<div data-album="5915870467468134401" class="gallery"><a href="https://plus.google.com/photos/110262280296887306226/albums/5915870467468134401">View Photos on Google+</a></div>

# Day 3: Whiskey District and People

Let us just say that I may have miscalculated my schedule!  Again in
glorious weather I wandered south this time, to the whiskey district
(another one of those areas you'd recognise, apparently the same the
world over; a long-time industrial complex of some description, now
rennovated into lots of trendy cafes and art galleries) and Lawrence
Market.

After lunch I headed over to the iconic
[CN Tower](http://www.cntower.ca/), with no inkling this might have
been a bad idea.  My Niagara companion had assured me he had visited
and didn't have to queue too long at all, and at no point had I
considered that perfect weather and this being Saturday would alter
anything (in truth, I had already lost track of what day it was
anyway).  Result: I had to queue to buy a ticket, then kill the next
hour somehow, then spend another hour and a half in the queue getting
up there, getting jostled by noisy kids and steadily going insane.

The view: yes, definitely impressive, but I also did not wait too long
in getting out of there.

After this assault on the senses I wandered back across town to the
ferry terminal, to check out the islands offshore.  Unfortunately, the
experience was remarkably similar: perfect weekend weather meant I was
far from alone, and by the time I got over there I took a few skyline
photos back at the city, and got the hell out of there too.

The busker festival was in full swing by the time I got back, so I did
wander up Yonge for a while taking in some performances and grazing on
street food for dinner, but getting thoroughly peopled-out and heading
back to the hostel.

<div data-album="5915871411517924785" class="gallery"><a href="https://plus.google.com/photos/110262280296887306226/albums/5915871411517924785">View Photos on Google+</a></div>

[^1]: An exception was recently made for a Starbucks, although they
had made so many changes to the livery it was hard to recognise.
