---
layout: post
title: "South America 2012"
category: 
tags: [Travel, South America]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Yet another belated catch-up post!  At the start of 2012, only a few
months after returning from
[Nepal again]({% post_url 2013-12-08-back-to-nepal-annapurna-2011 %}),
I took off for South America with a good friend and not much in the
way of planning.  Rather, we had a rough outline in mind, but apart
from our first night's accommodation and the (other) Inca Trail trek
we had nothing booked and all other "plans" went out the window on our
first night in Buenos Aires.

In an effort to get the blog back up to date, this post will cover the
entire 6 weeks in one hit, and be mostly photographs.  Unfortunately
this trip was also when I finally got frustrated with my photography
skills and camera; I have since upgraded the camera, although not the
ability.  I apologise for the sub-standard quality of most of the
pictures.

*TL;DR:* I loved South America.  It is quite large though, and we
attempted to cover way too much of it in 6 short weeks, but I wouldn't
change much (just so long as I get to go back).

# Argentina

We flew into Buenos Aires, and owing to that flight winding up while
we were away, were to fly out of Chile.  The first step is paying the
delightfully honestly named "reciprocity fee" (ie, "your country
charges a fee to our citizens, so we're going to make some money off
you too").

Struggling with jetlag we set off exploring from the hostel, and
unfortunately managed to find the financial district --- initial
impressions of the city weren't that glamorous.  The morning after we
met a returningtraveller at a hostel Spanish class, and she showed us
around.  Via a fasionable district (whose name I forget), and quite a
lot of wine, we spent the afternoon in bohemian-hip Palermo then had
some of the best steak I've ever eaten at
[La Cabrera](http://www.parrillalacabrera.com.ar/).  Secondary
impressions were much different: Buenos Aires is a *sexxxxxy* city,
full of extraordinarily attractive people and very European-styled
architecture.

We also learned that wine carafs are shaped like penguins
("Pinguinos").  I don't know why either, but we saw quite a few of
them.

The next day travel exhaustion hit like a hammer, and we were woken
about midday by the hostel staff evicting us.  Blearily we wandered
out with our guide friend again and explored La Boca, including the
famous [La Bombonera](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/La_Bombonera)
stadium where Boca Juniors (Maradona's club) play.

On a whim, based on nothing more than a conversation at the hostel the
day before, we found the bus station that evening and managed to
figure out how to buy over-night tickets to Mendoza --- wine country!
Buses are a real treat (if you pay enough, which is still fairly
cheap); much roomier than aeroplanes, plus they feed you, play you a
movie, and even bingo!  (Good for practicing our still-limited
Spanish).

Mendoza was fun, and the main activity is hiring a bike and touring
the myriad vineyards.  The local drivers seem well acquainted with
slightly unsteady tourists late in the day.  Not many photos from that
experience however.

<div data-album="5957414035648994849" class="gallery"><a href="https://plus.google.com/photos/110262280296887306226/albums/5957414035648994849">View Photos on Google+</a></div>

# Patagonia

From Mendoza it was time to head south for the Torres del Paine... and
on no planning ahead that meant struggling with online booking forms
to eventually find flights, then fly *back* to Buenos Aires and spend
the night in a bar at the airport before an extremely early flight
south to El Calafate.  The plan was to catch a bus over the border
into Chilean Patagonia, to the town of Puerto Natales.
Unfortunately---it's almost as if this was planned---there is a single
bus a day, which leaves just before the only flight in arrives.  So,
there was nothing for it but to find accommodation, and book a tour to
the Perito Moreno glacier (the only attraction in El Calafate!).  The
glacier is amazing, but they also leave you there to try and see ice
breaking off, for **7 hours**.  There is a single cafe above the
viewing area: again, it could almost have been planned!  We instead
stuck it out, and as luck would have it got chatting to 3 others (one
couple and a solo) who we wound up walking with.

The next morning we caught the bus to Puerto Natales, found
accommodation and visited the regular trekker's information session
held at a local gear shop.  The rest of the day was shopping, hiring
equipment, and packing.

The trek itself was magnificent, and naturally the photos don't
capture it at all.  We were quite lucky with the weather too.  While
waiting for a ferry across the lake to the trailhead we went on a
short walk to a nearby waterfall... just as the heavens opened and we
got completely soaked through.  I will admit to a few misgivings at
this point, but after that we really had amazing weather (although
"amazing" also includes wind gusts that made it impossible to stand).

As we were leaving the park we suddenly realised that the
[Navimag ferry](http://www.navimag.com/) was an option---we had heard
about it before leaving Australia, but our then-"plan" meant we would
miss it.  Back in Puerto Natales though we managed to get tickets,
then had to book an extra night (meaning two extra days since the
ferry left the evening of the following day).  The scenery through the
fjiordlands is unquestionably magnificent, but it is similarly
magnificent for 3 full days; that plus the extra days in Puerto
Natales wrote off close to a week, which in a 6 week holiday we could
ill-afford.  I would recommend it if you have the time, but it is the
only thing I would change about my own experience, really.

The boat arrives in Puerto Montt, for which the Lonely Planet's
inspiring advice is "catch a bus to Puerto Varas".  So we did that,
and despite our early arrival meaning nothing was open we did find a
local hostel that agreed to take us on a tour.  Puerto Varas has quite
a lot of Germanic influences, but our tour was exploring the volcanic
mountains and the nearby lake.  My personal highlight was
noticing---and only just avoiding stepping on---a rather rare Darwin's
tree frog, which as you can see in the photo has almost lost its green
colour in order to again blend in with the now-dead foliage.

At the end of the day we caught another plane up to Santiago.

<div data-album="5957414219385406369" class="gallery"><a href="https://plus.google.com/photos/110262280296887306226/albums/5957414219385406369">View Photos on Google+</a></div>

# Santiago de Chile

We arrived late in the evening and had no accommodation booked, apart
from a "tip" from the hostel guy in Puerto Varas.  So we caught a taxi
to this tip, who was rather surprised to see us and certainly in no
position to offer lodging.  He did take us on a walk, rather bemused
at this point, a few blocks away where a few people all stuck their
heads out of second-story windows, and eventually a door opened and we
had a bed for the night.  It turned out that a few people on the
street offered spare rooms for rent, mostly to university exchange
students, but at the time it was quite a bizarre experience.

Initial impressions of Santiago were... rather underwhelming.  It was
only later that we realised it was Easter weekend and most people were
away (and those remaining were obviously not in a mood to open their
businesses).  We experienced a much more lively Santiago when we
stayed our final night there before flying home!

<div data-album="5957414379467386689" class="gallery"><a href="https://plus.google.com/photos/110262280296887306226/albums/5957414379467386689">View Photos on Google+</a></div>

# Peru (Macchu Picchu)

From Santiago we flew up to Cusco in Peru, the old capital and the
launching place for trekking to Machu Picchu.  This was the only thing
we had booked in, and because the main Inca Trail books out months in
advance (and we were not that organised) and has visitor limits, we
had opted for the less well-known
[Salkantay route](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salcantay).  I don't
regret this for a second; it was less populus, hits a higher altitude,
and generally definitely felt like an adventure (albeit, unlike in
Patagonia an adventure where most of our luggage was carried for us
and all meals prepared for us!).  It is also a porter route, which
means lots of horses go on the path, which meant it was incredibly
muddy.

We had a few slight detours around fresh land slips, none more so than
at the end where we had to catch a jeep to the spot where most of the
road had simply fallen down the steep incline, get out and nervously
walk the 1 metre of remaining road to the other side and catch another
jeep.

Eventually we arrived in Aguas Calientes for the morning visit to
Machu Picchu itself.  I honestly did not expect to be that impressed;
granted the photos are spectacular, but you typically only ever see
the same slightly-elevated view, and I cynically expected it to have
more a plasticy theme-park feel to it.  Boy was I wrong: not only is
the setting so much more stunning in person, but the scale and detail
up-close is just breath-taking.  We also climbed Huena Picchu for an
areal view.

<div data-album="5957414528709667633" class="gallery"><a href="https://plus.google.com/photos/110262280296887306226/albums/5957414528709667633">View Photos on Google+</a></div>

# Bolivia

We had booked flights into Bolivia before our trek, and had arrived
back in civilisation (internet) to find that they had been cancelled,
so we had to find a bus instead.

We spent a day or so exploring La Paz, which is a rather beautiful
city at quite a high elevation, and with markets that go even higher
with no end in site!  Following that we caught a bus to Uyuni for the
standard 3-day 2-nights "salt flats of Uyuni tour".  Our jeep had 3
separate travel-pairs, and we all got on like a house on fire.  The
scenery is just remarkable too, from the train graveyard (so much more
fun than you'd expect!), to the bizarre lack of visual perspective on
the salt flats themselves (watching people posing photographs is
almost as much fun as posing them yourself), to the surreal colours
and rock formations in the deserts.  Bolivia is beautiful, and
definitely on my list of places to visit more thoroughly.

We finished by crossing the border back into Chile in San Pedro de
Atacama.

<div data-album="5957414691026258593" class="gallery"><a href="https://plus.google.com/photos/110262280296887306226/albums/5957414691026258593">View Photos on Google+</a></div>

# Valparaiso

For our final stop of the trip we had splurged on nice accommodation
in Valparaiso.  Unfortunately we were unable to splurge on transport
there, where our usual last-minute strategy let us down and we had to
watch our Canadian travel buddies have a leisurely dinner and fly
there, while we sucked it up on a 24 hour bus ride to Santiago, then
walk to a different bus station and catch another bus.  Then we
couldn't find a taxi at that time of night, but some local guy
loitering around was more than happy to pretend to be one.

Valparaiso is a beautiful town and amazing to wander.  Set on some
very steep hills, it was a once-booming port town that fell into
disrepair as the port business dried up, only to be reinvigorated as a
tourist town.  It still has that slightly edgy, slightly gritty feel
to much of it, while the other distinguishing feature is the
astonishing amount of graffiti murals covering the steep hills.

<div data-album="5957414839899545201" class="gallery"><a href="https://plus.google.com/photos/110262280296887306226/albums/5957414839899545201">View Photos on Google+</a></div>
