---
layout: post
title: "North America 2013: Montreal"
category:
tags: [Travel, North America]
---
{% include JB/setup %}


Back across the country again, this time to Francophone Montreal.
This particular point was underscored in baggage claim when a woman
came up and asked me a question in French---I had to apologise for not
speaking the language[^1], and she apologised herself but explained
that there are now laws requiring you to speak French first!  (I
assume this only applies to service personnel, but I don't know for
sure).  I also got to witness some proper Latin passion and anger, as
the storms that delayed our landing and many others, coupled with only
a single baggage crew, meant our bags were delayed by several hours.

This trip was easily the longest I had ever taken on my own, and I
wasn't sure exactly how I was going to go.  Until now it hadn't even
been an issue as I caught up with friends in Vancouver and stayed with
others in Alberta, and only had a few days to myself in Toronto.  By
pure fortune I was again blessed with company in Montreal; a good
friend from Vancouver had just moved to start attending MacGill
University with a few days free before term started, and a friend from
home put me in touch with a friend of hers now in Montreal, who then
spent 3 days showing us both around!

The company and the good times made Montreal one of my favourite
cities of the trip, but I'd like to think that it would have been fun
regardless.  Toronto had been nice to explore, but perhaps I had had
misplaced expectations or didn't stumble over the right parts as it
didn't feel like anything more than that.  On landing in Montreal at
night though I checked in and headed out to find dinner, and there
seemed to be a real crackle, and electricity in the air.  I'm sure the
brutal winters are a different story, but the summer certainly seemed
like fun!

# Graffiti Galore

New friend Liv picked me up from the hostel and introduced me to the
[Bixi Bike](https://bixi.com/) bike rental system.  I later saw the
same bikes under different names in later cities, but this was my
first encounter, and what a brilliant system it is, even if the
weather restricts their use to only 6 months in Montreal.  Montreal
also proved to be quite bike-friendly, and we followed a number of
bike paths to [brunch](http://lecartet.com/).

Well-fed, we wandered the old quarter, then headed north checking out
funky shops and landmarks.  There had recently been a graffiti
festival and there were great works everywhere.

That night all three of us went to dinner in the gay village
nearby... apparently it was fetish weekend, and the street fashion
parade was nothing if not educational (no photos, sorry).

<div data-album="5921077055609599681" class="gallery"><a href="https://plus.google.com/photos/110262280296887306226/albums/5921077055609599681">View Photos on Google+</a></div>

# Tam Tams

After a much-needed sleep-in I met up with Vancouver friend Alissa and
we walked up to the Tam Tams on Mount Royale.  The mountain park looks
over the entire city and we had quite a nice view from the top.  The
Tam Tams themselves is a summer weekends gathering, including several
epic drum circles, lots of circus arts, DJs, some ancient battle
reenactments, and generally a vibe somewhere between a hippie festival
and the beach.

For all the colourful sites, the pick of the lot might have been
watching the drum circle when I noticed an older shirtless guy stick a
joint in one nostril, cover the other with a finger and inhale with
such effort his head was on his knees by the time he'd finished his
drag, then repeated it with his other nostril.  I don't think I've
ever seen eyes roll that far back into someone's head.

Joined again by Liv later that evening we hit up a whisky bar for a
while, then a brew pub, then finally at 2 or 3am---my very first
poutine.  Surely there can't have been a more appropriate time or
frame of mind for it!  (There was quite a queue for it too)

<div data-album="5921080984918075697" class="gallery"><a href="https://plus.google.com/photos/110262280296887306226/albums/5921080984918075697">View Photos on Google+</a></div>


# Ile St Helen

Feeling rather subdued the next morning, I met Liv again for the
famous [Schwartz's Smoked Meats](http://schwartzsdeli.com/).  This is
one of those institutions that has a lengthy queue outside and
ultra-efficient staff inside.  Fortunately with local help I knew how
to order (they ask how fatty you want it, for example).  When it
arrives it's essentially a few tiny bits of bread, utterly dwarfed by
the mound of meat inside, and of course nigh-impossible to eat without
it all falling apart.

Even with that now lining our stomachs the residual hangovers, the
grey weather and a public holiday to boot all meant today was not
going to be energetic.  Picking up Alissa we caught the subway over to
Ile St Helene, now probably most notable as the somewhat-decaying
former site of [Expo 67](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Expo_67).  We
listlessly explored the biodome, before jumping on the subway again to
check out Atwater where we explored the market and found dinner.

<div data-album="5921083152335604801" class="gallery"><a href="https://plus.google.com/photos/110262280296887306226/albums/5921083152335604801">View Photos on Google+</a></div>


# Atwater

On my own for my final day, I managed to find a hair cut then set off
to explore the Italian district.  This didn't excite me as much as I'd
hoped, and I worked my way slowly back down, exploring on the way,
then cycled back to Atwater for more of an explore.

I checked out a restaurant tip for my final dinner, where for some
reason I was the only customer (apparently it is normally pumping) and
the bored waitress was quite chatty and gave me plenty of tips for my
next destination... New York!

<div data-album="5921083703058279089" class="gallery"><a href="https://plus.google.com/photos/110262280296887306226/albums/5921083703058279089">View Photos on Google+</a></div>

[^1]: I did study it for 4 years in high school too.  Not a skerrick
remains, sadly.
