---
layout: post
title: "North America 2013: San Francisco"
category: 
tags: [Travel, North America]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

I love travel; I love exploring new places, meeting new people, trying
new food, seeing different ways of doing every-day things and having
my comfort-zone pushed... I love the lot.  Fundamentally however,
there comes a time where you start to itch for that feeling of being
productive again.  At heart I'm a nerd, and my fingers were missing
writing code and my mind was both starting to overflow with ideas and
starting to panic about atrophying.  A recent
[visit to MIT]({% post_url 2014-01-25-north-america-2013-boston %})
did not help these feelings.

So, it was time for a holiday from my holiday---time to chill out
without too much pressure to explore or plan the next few day's
travel, and time to hack if and when I felt like it.  San Francisco
was the perfect spot for this: I'd already visited in the past so
wouldn't feel like I was missing out if I didn't spend all day
exploring, and of course it has a thriving tech community.  Add to
that a couple of friends in town and the deal was sealed.

It was glorious: I rented a nice room via
[AirBnB](https://www.airbnb.com/), perfectly located in a great area
near Alamo Square and on a couple of bus routes; I went to
[meetups](http://www.meetup.com/) and pitch events; I had a lot of
great coffee and food; I hung out with friends, and wrote code in
cafes.[^1]  Nerd-wise it was exactly what I was looking for, although
no-less intimidating ("Hi, what do you do?" "Well, I wrote
[WireShark](http://www.wireshark.org/), but now I'm..." to pick a
random example).  I can definitely imagine working in SF for a few
years to turbo-charge your development, but by the same token it is
also easy to see why people feel the need to work such crazy hours
just to keep up, which doesn't seem sustainable or healthy.

I did of course still do plenty of walking---it's a very pretty and
walkable city.  My charmed run of weather continued, barring a single
morning downpour while I was doing laundry, in flagrant violation of
the apocryphal quote *"The coldest winter I ever spent was a summer in
San Francisco"*.[^2]  The lack of touristy activities unfortunately
meant that I took very few photos; the car show pictured was a random
find on a walk through the Castro when for some reason I did happen to
have my camera with me.

<div data-album="5924408848613220497" class="gallery"><a href="https://plus.google.com/photos/110262280296887306226/albums/5924408848613220497">View Photos on Google+</a></div>

<div data-album="5926690117005265601" class="gallery"><a href="https://plus.google.com/photos/110262280296887306226/albums/5926690117005265601">View Photos on Google+</a></div>

[^1]: Yes, I'm sure this all makes me a closet hipster, but I just
can't wear plaid and I don't think my legs would ever fit in jeans
that skinny.

[^2]: Probably not Mark Twain, but let's attribute it to him since
everything else is.
