---
layout: post
title: "North America 2013: Boston"
category: 
tags: [Travel, North America]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Word on the street said the best way to get to Boston from NY was the
[Bolt Bus](https://www.boltbus.com/): they're new, cheapest, have
wifi, etc.  I found the "station" (a sandwich board erected on the
footpath) nearly an hour early, and watched a Philidelphia service run
like clockwork, with all of the ticketed boarding, walk-ups, and
departure occuring exactly on time, and announced in a crystal-clear
projected voice I could hear even at the back.

Then we all sat back and waited for the Boston bus.  Soon enough a bus
pulled up... and ignored us, while we watched the driver eat fruit
salad in her seat.  About 10 minutes later she did briefly emerge to
say that she wasn't going to Boston, before locking the door again.
Confusion reigned, as both our boarding then departure times came and
went (observed silently by fruit salad lady.  I never did figure out
what route she *was* driving).  Eventually, a bus that had pulled up
behind her, and also denied he was going to Boston, did relent and
agree to take us---he did not look happy about it, and I suspect we
were eating into his home-time.  Missing: one NY-Boston Bolt Bus,
possibly still out there.  We did not have wifi for the journey
either.  First-world problems abounded.

Owing to my lack of advance planning (spontaneity has its downsides)
my hostel was actually in Everett, a suburb about half an hour by
train out from the city centre, and then a bus ride from the train
station (they did have a free shuttle once you'd checked in).  The
hostel actually felt more like a half-way house than a typical
backpackers, but on the positive side it was located in a Brazillian
district and all-you-can-eat Brazillian BBQ joints abounded.  I
considered that a net win, really.

# Boston and the Freedom Trail

I headed into the city the next day with a friend from the dorm, on a
brutally hot day (I think it pushed 40Â°C).  The main thing to do,
apparently, is to walk the
[Freedom Trail](http://www.thefreedomtrail.org/); a walk along sites
of historical significance associated with the American Revolution.
Most of these sites seemed to involve
[Paul Revere](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paul_Revere), often in
rather tenuous connections---his first-grade teacher's first house?
I'm probably making that particular example up, but coupled with the
heat and an overloading of history, side-notes to an event to which we
felt no personal connection anyway, it started to feel that way.  But
apparently I am
[not the only one](http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/compost/wp/2014/01/17/nobody-knows-history-says-fox-host-then-proves-it/)
to be slightly ignorant of the history!

After lunch we eventually managed to extract ourselves from the
air-conditioned bliss of a pub, where after a walk through the
financial district we parted ways for a bit and I hugged the shade on
a wander through a leafy upper-class neighbour hill, around the river,
and back along the main shopping and entertainment district.

<div data-album="5922565498547590497" class="gallery"><a href="https://plus.google.com/photos/110262280296887306226/albums/5922565498547590497">View Photos on Google+</a></div>

# Nerding out in Cambridge

One of the things my dorm friend and I had bonded over was that we
were both, well, nerds ("engineers", in polite speak).  So, coupled
with some cooler weather we were both a lot more excited to head in to
Cambridge to check out Harvard and MIT.

We explored MIT first, found the hilariously jumbled Stata centre,
then headed for the museum for the best part of a couple of hours.
Highlight here: an original LISP machine[^1]!

We took the subway another couple of stops to Harvard, but having
missed out on the tours (and not aided by the near-complete lack of
signage) the highlight was probably free liquid-nitrogen ice-cream
samples.

I spent some time in the nerd-heaven that is the
[MIT bookstore](http://web.mit.edu/bookstore/www/), before going to a
[Clojure](http://clojure.org/) meetup at the
[Akamai](http://www.akamai.com/) headquarters.

Several people had mentioned that Harvard was the prettier place to
see, with a beautiful historic campus, while MIT was just a mish-mash
of buildings.  Visually that may have been true, but accurately or not
the impression we both got was rather different: Harvard felt elitest,
old-money, look-but-don't-touch, marvel at the number of US presidents
among our alumni, etc.  MIT, on the other hand, felt *much* more
meritocratic: an absolute buzzing hive of activity, where if you were
smart enough and prepared to work hard enough there could be a place
for you.  Who knows if that's accurate in either case, but as
inspiration it certainly hit home.

<div data-album="5922941093320860369" class="gallery"><a href="https://plus.google.com/photos/110262280296887306226/albums/5922941093320860369">View Photos on Google+</a></div>

[^1]: As well as inspired, I also got depressed and that evening
booked a week in SF to decompress a little and write some code again.
