---
layout: post
title: "North America 2013: Chicago"
category: 
tags: [Travel, North America]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

I was quite excited about visiting
[Chicago](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yEtzKjTzmcM), and it was fun
to wander around, but ultimately I felt rather underwhelmed.  I
definitely feel that I missed out though; sometimes a city simply
fails to inspire, but in this case I think I just failed to find the
fun bits.  Notably, I completely failed to go to any Jazz or Blues
clubs.  I'm definitely keen to return (will any show me around?)

# Millennium Park and Willis Tower

The weather was already looking glorious, and I headed into town to
hunt down, first and foremost, the "bean"!  (Its actual title is the
[cloud gate](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cloud_Gate)).  This
surprisingly-funky sculpture is just one of many in Millennium Park,
and on a sunny Saturday I was not the only one enjoying it.

The bean was definitely a highlight, and I couldn't help giggling when
I realised you could also stand underneath it.  Afro beats at a
near-by sound stage provided a backdrop for the rest of my
exploration.

That afternoon I yet-again braved the crowds end endless queuing for
[Willis Tower](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Willis_Tower), still the
second-tallest building in the United States.  It was a pretty
familiar story for me by this stage however: great views, but by the
time we got up there I was more or less done.

To unwind I wandered the streets a little, although on a Saturday
evening in the business area the streets were pretty quiet.  There is
a collection of sculptures by famous artists, all roughly on the same
intersection, and I hunted those down.  My favourite was undoubtedly a
horse by Picasso, a 3-dimensional instantiation of his minimalist
line-drawing style, but up close rather massive and physical.  I even
watched some cyclists using it as a ramp at one point!  Apparently
this is a bit of a mascot of the city and they even dress it up in
team colours for sports events at times.  Close by was a
[Miro](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mir%C3%B3%27s_Chicago), and around
the corner one by Dubuffet, known colloquially and for obvious reasons
as
["Snoopy in a blender"](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monument_with_Standing_Beast).

# Rain and Architecture

The following day the weather gods had deserted me, and I had to run
for the train downtown.  After grabbing a coffee I found a river
architecture cruise---for those unaware, Chicago is renowned for its
architecture (and in particular as a pioneer of the skyscraper age).
The old city was razed almost completely by a fire in 1871, followed
by architects flocking from all around lured by the blank slate
offered and the promise of modern building materials (steel and
concrete instead of wood).

The tour was impeccably run by a volunteer guide (a
[river docent](http://www.architecture.org/)), although I was less
impressed having to buy a poncho!

The rain only got heavier, and I splashed out on a spectacular lunch
at a [gastro-pub](http://thepurplepigchicago.com/).  The rain eased
slightly so I had a bit of an explore around the hipster area of Logan
Square.

<div data-album="5923705370926258113" class="gallery"><a href="https://plus.google.com/photos/110262280296887306226/albums/5923705370926258113">View Photos on Google+</a></div>


