---
layout: post
title: "North America 2013: New York"
category:
tags: [Travel, North America]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

New York was one of the main attractions drawing me to the US on this
trip---probably not a surprise to many of you, but it had barely been
on my radar until the last few years when a combination of popular
culture and a number of friends raving about placed it front and
square in my awareness.

So, from Montreal it was time to head south across the border.  It
wasn't an auspicious beginning, as the train was delayed and we all
queued up the middle of the station while all around us everything
else (the non-Amtrak trains) ran on time.  Meanwhile, a gentleman
behind me muttered how typical that was, how poor trains were these
unlike in the golden days, and so on.  No-one had much idea what was
going on either; we all had our luggage, but periodically an Amtrak
employee would walk up and down the line, mumbling something about
reserved seating while looking away from us.  My gentleman friend said
absolutely no way was he going to try and find his luggage in central
station, he wouldn't trust them as far as he could throw them and he
was holding onto it thank you very much.

Eventually I found a seat.  "May I sit with you?" said a young lady
behind me.  Of course I replied; "great!  Could you put my bag up in
the rack then please?".  I think I was used!  Conversation after that
was quite pleasant, coupled with nice views of autumnal colour through
the countryside, and luckily since the journey was around 10 hours!
She was a manager from a software development shop in Finland, which
instantly gave us some common ground.  At one point she asked about my
chromebook and I was half-way through mentioning that I'd turned it
into a passable
[development environment](http://martintrojer.github.io/clojure/2013/04/06/clojure-on-the-samsung-arm-chromebook/),
before reflexively halting... even today, "Linux" isn't that
well-known.  I needn't have worried: Linus is a national hero in
Finland!

Finally we disembarked, bleary-eyed and weary, into the cacophony of
central station.  My new Finnish friend was returning to New York, and
kindly guided me to the subway I needed.  A saxophone and bass busking
pair were playing a driving rhythm at ear-splitting volume.  It was
almost hypnotic, but we had to keep moving.  Even with guidance I
still somehow jumped on the subway in the wrong direction, before
realising several stops down and changing direction.  Eventually I
found the [hostel](http://www.nylofthostel.com/) (complete with a
fellow Tasmanian in my room!), had a late-night taco from a truck
nearby, and crashed.

# New York attractions on the cheap

New York has a deserved reputation for being expensive, but while all
the museums, galleries, buildings etc aren't individually expensive
they quickly add up just because there's so *many* of them!  If you
are travelling on a tight budget it is possible to save significantly
here though:

* Statue of Liberty?  The regular Staten Island ferry goes right past
  it, at a fraction of the cost of a tour.
* Several museums are actually donation-only; the signs make it look
  like it's $20, but you can drop $1 and waltz past the dirty looks.
* Those with an actual admission fee usually have a free afternoon.
* There is apparently a superb view from the
  [cable car](http://www.nyhabitat.com/blog/2008/05/30/top-5-manhattan-views-1-the-roosevelt-island-tram/).

I did none of this (I never even made it to the cable car at all,
which I *am* disappointed about).  Instead, I bought a
[city pass](http://www.citypass.com/new-york) book of tickets, which
saves you $80 over 6 attractions, if you go to them all.  Why would I
do this?  Because it also means you can jump a *whole* lot of queues
(not all of them; there'll still be a wait for the security check,
etc).  I was already well and truly over queuing, and the prospect of
an entire week more of it easily made me open my wallet!  Later
walking past [MoMA](http://www.moma.org/) while the queue for free
admission stretched around the block was enough to validate my
decision.

# Seeing New York

I had roughly two types of days in the city.  Some days I just cruised
different neighbourhoods, wandering around soaking up the place,
checking out restaurants and cafes, and doing a lot of walking.  Then
there were the days I spent at various capital-A Attractions.  New
York has a *lot* of these, but as I hinted above, I found the queuing,
the security checks, and so on all rather exhausting and border-line
dehumanising at times.  I'm definitely glad I made the effort (perhaps
my
[recollection will be better than the experience](http://www.ted.com/talks/daniel_kahneman_the_riddle_of_experience_vs_memory.html)!),
but at the time I enjoyed the on-foot exploration much more.

It is certainly not news, but I'll repeat it here: New York is a
fantastic city to explore on foot.  It's always my favourite way to
explore and experience a place, but some are much more suited to it
than others.  The subway goes everywhere, and often (random stoppages
aside), the footpaths are nice and wide.  Perfect.

Day 1 was all about exploration.  Subway to
[Union Square](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CNLLVTZCxbE) to pick up
a US SIM card, then walking past all the brownstone to a spectacular
lunch at [Momofuku](http://momofuku.com/).  Off to a good start!  That
was followed by an espresso *and* (because I couldn't pass it up) a
[nitro cold brew](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LkJKmiOcsv4)---this
is exactly what it sounds like; a cold-brewed coffee, served from a
nitrous keg so it looked like Guinness, and tasted exceptionally creamy
to boot.

After a walk through Central Park I wound up at
[The Met](http://www.metmuseum.org/), where I only had a short amount
of time which was probably perfect for not over-doing my
non-art-appreciating brain.

# Highline Park

Don't ask me where I'd heard about it, but I was really looking
forward to the [Highline Park](http://www.thehighline.org/).  At the
time I had the impression it was a bit of undiscovered secret, but by
the time I arrived it had most definitely been discovered!  The
highline is a stretch of elevated railway, previously abandoned and
now converted into a park and walk-way, with great views along the way
to boot.  The beautiful weather and popularity at least ensured there
were plenty of lunch vendors available.

<div data-album="5921447752774257393" class="gallery"><a href="https://plus.google.com/photos/110262280296887306226/albums/5921447752774257393">View Photos on Google+</a></div>

That afternoon I hit up the [MoMA](http://www.moma.org/).  I really
enjoyed this; for some reason I *do* seem to have more of an affinity
with (some) modern art.  The lower floors also contained a lot of
applied and industrial design, milestone computer artefacts (including
an annotated print-out of the first Pacman code!), sound art, and so
on.  The upper two floors were more of a strain: this is where the big
names reside, the Picassos, the Van Gough, the Warhols... and
apparently nearly all the visitors, screaming and running from piece
to piece to take a picture with their iphone
[or ipad](http://thebestpageintheuniverse.net/c.cgi?u=padhole) and
running on to the next.  I did not last as long on the top floors.

With the sun down the next stop was the
[Rockerfeller Centre](http://www.rockefellercenter.com/).  It's not as
tall or possibly as famous as the Empire State Building, but everyone
says the views are better and I won't dispute that.

<div data-album="5921448304926140289" class="gallery"><a href="https://plus.google.com/photos/110262280296887306226/albums/5921448304926140289">View Photos on Google+</a></div>

# Brooklyn, 9/11 Memorial, Empire State Building

There was a simple plan for the day: walk the famous Brooklyn Bridge,
have a quick look at the 9/11 Memorial and make my way north on foot.

The first step was a success, and the bridge is a great walk.
Unfortunately, I naively *completely* misunderstood what was going to
be involved in a "quick look" at the memorial, and this consumed a lot
more time than I realised.  Even finding it is not simple, with many
paths blocked off due to construction and no signage anywhere, and
lots of coalesced groups of people that looked confusingly like queues
to somewhere.  Proving that capitalism was not defeated in the
attacks, however, were swarms of people hawking commemorative
booklets, tea-towels, and so on.  Once it *had* been found... of
course it involved more queuing.  Lots and lots of queuing, and lots
and lots of security checks, and at least two points at which your
donation was strongly encouraged.  The memorial itself is in fact a
great and somber tribute to those who died, but after all that I did
not stay long.

Naturally, I had to make it up north for more queuing!  This time, it
was for the Empire State building.  Great views, but by this time I
was done and after a [late lunch](http://thebreslin.com/) and drink to
unwind I turned in early.

<div data-album="5921450412772079857" class="gallery"><a href="https://plus.google.com/photos/110262280296887306226/albums/5921450412772079857">View Photos on Google+</a></div>

# Wall St, Central Park

If yesterday was all about crowds and queuing, the following day was
going to be all on foot!  Starting by walking from the hostel through
hipster Williamsburg, then catching the subway down south to Wall
Street in order to walk north.  Up through Chinatown, Little Italy,
NoLita, a late lunch at
[Mission Chinese](http://missionchinesefood.com/).  I did fit in an
hour or so at the Natural History Museum, which was probably ideal to
fit in the dinosaurs and meteor exhibits.  It has been a while since
I've thought more than passingly about dinosaurs---I felt like a kid
again, staring in amazement!  Being able to touch a massive lump of
iron metal that fell from the sky,
[characteristic crystallisation](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Widmanst%C3%A4tten_pattern)
and all, was also very cool.

Dinner was at the famous
[Katz's Delicatessen](http://katzsdelicatessen.com/).  This was a
recommendation from a friend, but of course it was also "where Harry
met Sally".  I was completely unaware of this, until I realised that
there was a large arrow sign at the table diagonally across from me,
pointing down and telling everyone that's where it all happened
(amusingly, it had a solitary girl looking rather bored).  It is a
chaotic place and the ordering system takes a little while to figure
out.  For a start (this is not obvious!) there are multiple queues,
and if you are there for the famous pastrami-on-rye (as you should
be), you have about 4 to choose from.  You give your order (and pay on
the way out, based on the ticket they'll write on), the cutter will
get to work, first giving you a taste while he works, you tip him a
couple of dollars, and off you go with a veritable mountain of
unctuous meat!  It wasn't long since an equally large lunch so I was
rather nervous about the quantity, but that's what I train for!

Walking in the wrong direction for a while afterwards gave me another
chance to explore a rather swanky area.

<div data-album="5921452492389955729" class="gallery"><a href="https://plus.google.com/photos/110262280296887306226/albums/5921452492389955729">View Photos on Google+</a></div>

# River Cruise

There was one attraction left in my City Pass book; a river cruise.  I
had mixed expectations about this, and was rather underwhelmed (by way
of example, we stopped by the Statue of Liberty for a while, while the
guide rhapsodised at length about "freedom"---a concept people from
outside NY are not expected to understand apparently---without once
mentioning France.  We passed the
[One World Trade Centre](http://onewtc.com/) and he complained that it
used be called the Freedom Tower, but it's all about making money
after all and not everyone appreciates freedom so we hadda change it.
And so on).

From here it was back on foot, through the Chelsea Markets, and down
to Greenwich Village.  This is an incredibly funky area still, and as
a music fan it was amazing to stare at the who's-who list of artists
who have frequented [Cafe Wha?](http://www.cafewha.com/about/history).

Another meal at Momofuku rounded out my final day in the big apple!

<div data-album="5922564954932948833" class="gallery"><a href="https://plus.google.com/photos/110262280296887306226/albums/5922564954932948833">View Photos on Google+</a></div>
